RHIDP-6145: Added developer-focused content for software templates (#1098)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: modules/customizing-templates/proc-creating-a-new-software-component-using-templates.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * assemblies/assembly-configuring-templates.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="proc-creating-a-new-software-component-using-templates_{context}"]
= Creating a new software component using Software Templates

You can create a new software component using the standard Software Templates that the platform engineers have created. The scaffolding process runs in your {product} instance.

.Procedure

. In your {product} navigation menu, click *Catalog* > *Self-service*.
. On the *Self-service* page, click *Choose* on the *Templates* tile to initiate the scaffolding process for a template.
. Follow the wizard instructions as you enter the required details. You can choose parameters from a set of pre-defined options.

> . Optional: In the *Deployment Information* step, you have an option to *Create Workbench for OpenShift AI*.

Reviewer: Not all templates will have this step. Is this why you have mentioned it as Optional ?

Author: Yes, Debsmita. I'll make that clearer.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * assemblies/assembly-configuring-templates.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="proc-creating-a-new-software-component-using-templates_{context}"]
= Creating a new software component using Software Templates

You can create a new software component using the standard templates that the platform engineers have created. With this procedure, the scaffolding process runs in your {product} instance.

.Procedure

To create a new software component, complete the following steps:

. In your {product} instance, go to the *Home > Catalog* page, and click *Self-service*.

> . On the *Self-service* page, click *Choose* on the *Templates* tile to initiate the scaffolding process for a template.

Reviewer 2: Is it the ***Self-service*** page, or the *Software Templates* page? I see the ***Software Templates*** page, but I might not be using the latest version of RHDH

Author: The latest build says **Self-service** page, Lindsey...

+
[NOTE]
====

> Each template requires you to provide different information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The information that you enter for a software template is specific to that template.
```
^just a suggestion to improve clarity

====

. Follow the wizard instructions as you enter the required details. You can choose parameters from a set of pre-defined options.
. Optional: In the *Deployment Information* step, you have an option to *Create Workbench for OpenShift AI*.
. In the *Review* step, verify the parameters you have entered and click *Create*.
+
[NOTE]
====

> * You can click *Cancel* to abort the software component creation during the template running step only if the current step supports the abort. The abort signal is, then, sent to a task and all the next steps are not executed. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You can click *Cancel* to abort the software component creation during the template running step only if the current step supports the abort. The abort signal is then sent to a task and none of the following steps are executed. 
```

* During the creation of the software component, click *Show Logs* to view the log information.
====

.Verification

> * You can click *Cancel* to abort the software component creation during the template running step only if the current step supports the abort. The abort signal is, then, sent to a task and all the next steps are not executed. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```
This is repeated as an admonition and it doesn't seem like a verification step

> * During the creation of the software component, click  *Show Logs*to view the log information.

Reviewer 2: This doesn't really seem like a step that verifies the successful completion of the procedure either. Consider removing the .Verification section from this procedure.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * assemblies/assembly-configuring-templates.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="proc-creating-a-new-software-component-using-templates_{context}"]
= Creating a new software component using Software Templates

You can create a new software component using the standard templates that the platform engineers have created. The scaffolding process runs in your {product} instance.

.Procedure

To create a new software component, complete the following steps:

. In your {product} navigation menu, click *Catalog* > *Self-service*.
. On the *Self-service* page, click *Choose* on the *Templates* tile to initiate the scaffolding process for a template.

> 

Reviewer 3: Remove this empty line as it is breaking the formatting.

```suggestion
```

+
[NOTE]
====
The information that you enter for a software template is specific to that template.
====

. Follow the wizard instructions as you enter the required details. You can choose parameters from a set of pre-defined options.
. Optional: In the *Deployment Information* step, you have an option to *Create Workbench for OpenShift AI*.
. In the *Review* step, verify the parameters you have entered and click *Create*.
+
[NOTE]
====
* You can click *Cancel* to abort the software component creation during the template running step only if the current step supports the abort. The abort signal is then sent to a task and none of the following steps are executed. 
* During the creation of the software component, click *Show Logs* to view the log information.
====

.Verification

* If your software component is not successfully created, you can click on each section in the *Self-service* page to view the log information from the step that failed.

* If your template is successfully created, you can view the component by clicking the following links on the success page:
** *Source Repository*
** *GitOps Repository*
** *Open Component in Catalog*
** *Open GitOps Resource in Catalog*

> * To view the software component that you have just created, click *Open Component in catalog*, or in your {product} instance, go to the *Home* page, and click *Catalog*.
> 
> * To view the Source Code in your version control, click *Source Code Repository*.

Reviewer 3: Consider removing fluff. These steps are repeating substeps currently at lines 39 and 41.

```suggestion
```
